# Authenticating for Automated Device Enrollment

Communicate securely with the web service using a server token.

## Overview

Automated Device Enrollment uses a server token to allow a device management service to securely communicate with the program’s service.

## Get an Automated Device Enrollment server token

To get a server token, the user must complete the following steps. You can help by automating some of the steps.

1. Generate a public-private key pair in Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) format for your device management service, and store the private key securely on the service.
2. Sign into Apple School Manager or Apple Business.
3. Create a new device management server.
4. Upload a PEM-encoded X.509 certificate that contains the public key generated in step 1.
5. Download the S/MIME-encrypted (Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) token file generated by the web portal.
6. Decrypt the S/MIME token.
7. Upload the token file to the device management service.

The token consists of these 4 items: the consumer key, the consumer secret, the access token, and the access secret. See [Examining server tokens](/documentation/devicemanagement/examining-server-tokens) for more details.

## Deploy the server token

The server tokens can be deployed automatically or manually.

## Use the OAuth credentials

Each service request to the enrollment service must include an `X-ADM-Auth-Session` header. If the request doesn’t have a valid `X-ADM-Auth-Session` header, or the auth token has expired, the server returns an `HTTP 401 Unauthorized` error. A new `X-ADM-Auth-Session` can be requested by using the `https://mdmenrollment.apple.com/session` endpoint. This endpoint supports the OAuth 1.0a protocol for accessing protected resources.

OAuth requests must provide the server-token fields along with a timestamp (in seconds since January 1, 1970 00:00:00 GMT) and a cryptographically random anti-replay value that must be unique for all requests made with a given timestamp. Sign the request using HMAC-SHA1, as described in [http://oauth.net/core/1.0a/#signing_process](http://oauth.net/core/1.0a/#signing_process).  A request might look like:

```javascript
GET /session HTTP/1.1    
Authorization: OAuth realm="ADM",
       oauth_consumer_key="CK_00fadb3d36c6094cf479838455321b7c",
       oauth_token="AT_O2109279022Oe03b641fd6f07d7face7894211d521fd8bef09c3O137392",
       oauth_signature_method="HMAC-SHA1",
       oauth_signature="wOJIO9A2W5mFwDgiDvZbTSMK%2FPY%3D",
       oauth_timestamp="137131200",
       oauth_nonce="4572616e48616d6d65724c61686176",
       oauth_version="1.0"

```

> 

The token service validates the request and replies with a JSON payload containing a single key, `auth_session_token`, that contains the new `X-ADM-Auth-Session` token. A sample response might look like:

```javascript
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 28 Feb 2013 02:24:28 GMT
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF8
Content-Length: 47 
Connection: close

{
    "auth_session_token" : "87a235815b8d6661ac73329f75815b8d6661ac73329f815"
}

```

After a period of time, the token expires and the service returns a `401` error code. When this happens, you must request a new session token.

> 

## Topics

### Examples and error codes

- [Examining server tokens](/documentation/devicemanagement/examining-server-tokens) - View sample encrypted and unencrypted tokens to verify your server tokens are in the right format.
- [Interpreting Automated Device Enrollment error codes](/documentation/devicemanagement/interpreting-automated-device-enrollment-program-error-codes) - Interpret the error codes you might encounter or that can happen during authentication.

